Thoughts on how I solve puzzles:

test 000:
    all reagents are single atoms
    product has bonds
    ergo. bonder is required
    product has silver and vitae in it.
    vitae is available via reagents
    silver can only be made from projecting copper with quicksilver
    that solves all materials.
    the rest of the puzzle is positioning and creating the bonds
    all 3 reagents are necessary.

    for a cost solution:
        3 reagents means at least 2 pieces of track in order to move the
        reagents past each other.
        2 hand slots for the projection
        2 hand slots for the bonder
        3 for the reagents
        1 for the product
        that's over 6 but under 12, no need to add more track
        this is solveable with 1 arm, 2 tracks, 1 projector, 1 bonder
        min cost is 10+10+20+10 = 50

        in order to position the parts correctly:
            the quicksilver needs to move from the reagent to the projection
            consumer iris
            the copper needs to be able to move to the projection conversion
            slot, and then from there, access to the bonder slots
            the vitae needs to be able to move to the bonder slots.
            bond operations will all take place on top of the bonder, so the arm
            needs space to be able to create all the bonds. The best chance for
            that is an arm of length 2 where the bonder is parallel to the
            tracks, because that puts 1 hex of free space between the bonder and
            the arm base at all times, it creates the least amount of
            restrictions for space. All bond types should be possible without
            need for analysis of bond arrangements for having all single atom
            reagents.

test 001:
    There is a duplicate reagents for quicksilver
    The other reagent has a bond between two airs.
    It is the only reagent with elemental types.
    There is duplication available in puzzle, which means that the air atoms can
    be converted into any other elemental.

    The product contasins fire, water, and air. The only elemental reagent type
    is air. fire and water can only be produced via calcification and berlo
    duplication. thus the berlo wheel, duplicator, and calcifier are necessary.

    There exists an arrangement of the reagents that creates the product without
    debonding. reagent 1 bonded to reagent 2 bonded to reagent 2. The elementals
    will need converted accordingly. this eliminates the potential need for a
    debonder.

    ===: THOUGHT PATTERN :===
    My conclusions about what parts are necessary are akin to discovering what
    constraints exist on the optimal solution. Perhaps my instincts that categorize
    puzzles are doing so because different sets of constraints require different
    kinds of approaches?
    ======

    for a cost solution:
        required parts:
            1 QS reagent
            1 Air-Air reagent
            1 bonder
            1 duplicator
            1 calcifier
            1 arm

            tracks=?

                reagents can be bonded before the conversion of any elementals
                is necessary. Thus the calcifier and duplicator parts that
                conver the elemental atoms do not need to be within hand range.

                I can imagine a scenario to bond all of the atoms together with
                a length 2 arm without track, which means that it is not
                necessary to have the arm able to grab both bonder slots. It
                only requires 1 bonder slot.
                However I am having a difficult time imagining being able to
                calcify all necessary atoms after bonding them with a trackless
                length 2 arm. I think the principle of channels applies here in
                a way that restricts the grabbable atoms from exiting the
                grabbable channel, and vice versa, the ungrabbable atoms from
                entering the grabbable channel. Since atoms that require
                calcifying exist both inside and outside the grabbable channel,
                that means there is no space that exists that can calcify both
                groups. ergo, if the arm is trackless, it must be length 1, not
                2 or 3. length 1 will make all atoms grabbable by collapsing all
                4 channels (or rather, the grab channel and the not-grab
                channels) into 1 channel (which is grabbable).

                ===: GENERALIZATION :===
                In other puzzles, if the arm is trackless, I think the principle
                of channels will always apply. But if the arm has tracks,
                regardless of arm length, all channels collapse, since pivoting
                and translating one space should be able to make all channels on
                a molecule grabbable.
                ======

            I accomplished a solution without using tracks

            But I encountered issue based on where I chose to put the duplicator
            and the bonder. There were collision issues based on the bonding
            order and duplication order.

            ===: GENERALIZATION :===
            If the arm is trackless, then the side of the bonder the reagent can
            move to is predetermined (based on the next molecule to get bonded.)

            The exception for this case is when the molecule can reach around
            the molecule that blocks its path.
            ======

test 345:
    S + S + S + E => V-V-E
    3 duplicate salt reagents
    1 earth reagent

    product contains vitae
        no vitae in reagents
        vitae can only be produced with animismus
            animismus part is necessary
            vitae must be produced via animismus
            animismus produces vitae without bonds on it
            vitae in product has bonds
            vitae must use bonder to create bonds on vitae in product
    animismus requires salt
        salt is available in reagents.
        salt can also be produced via calcification of earth
        calcification is more expensive, but requires less reagents
        these are tradeoff considerations.
            when considering a low cost solution, first try to assert the path
            with the lowest potential cost, the one without calcification

    product contains earth
        earth is available in reagents
        earth cannot be produced by any parts available
        reagent earth is the only option

    salt to animismus to produce vitae and byproduct mors
    vitae and earth to bonder to create shape of product
    then output

    min part list:
        bonder
            requires 2 hand slots that are adjacent
                (all reagents are single atoms, so bonder requires 2)
                either:
                    arm length == 1 and track => 0
                    arm length > 1 and track >= 2
        animismus
            requires 4 hand slots that are in 4 different channels
                count track >= 4
                arm length > 1
        disposal is free, optional for mors
            would require 1 hand slot, but is always less than the 12 mors
            byproducts that would need their own slots.
        4 tracks
        1 arm of length 2 (required by animismus)
            creates 24 hand slots on the board

        cost = 10 + 20 + 0? + 4*5 + 20 = 70

    There is no path that creates vitae that does not have a byproduct of
    unusable mors. byproduct must be handled.
        3 optional strategies for mors:
            output mors to disposal (requires disposal)
            use empty hand slot spaces for storing mors (cannot loop)
            bond mors together in a chain going outwards (requires bonder)

            I'm not certain what strategy is guaranteed to take fewest cycles.
            The disposal is free, and a bonder is already required and re-usable,
            so all of these strategies theoretically have no additional cost.

