> Determining the minimum possible cost of parts for a puzzle:

1. What is the minimum required parts to transform the ingredients into the
products?

    assume you only need 1 of each kind of part for the sake of cost.

    purification uses only metal, projection uses quicksilver
    purification requires 3 hand slots, projection only requires 1 (QS).

2. Does it need bonders? does it need debonders?

    Are there more atoms in the product than in the reagent?
        If yes, bonders are necessary.
    Are there less atoms in the product than in the reagent?
        If yes, debonders are necessary.
    If there is a reagent that matches the shape for each product:
        then it _might_ not be necessary to use any bonders/debonders.

    Does the shape of the product match the reagent?
        Can the reagent atom types be changed in place without debonding to
        match the product?

        projections can change a reagent to match the product, but they consume
        quicksilver atoms _as molecules_. Which means some part of the puzzle
        needs to produce quicksilver molecules if projection is necessary.

3. What is the minimum cost in arms and track to cover all hands-on spaces?

    Each arm adds 6 hand slots. the number of channels it has is always 1.

    Track costs 5N for N positions. 1 position costs 0 (no track).

    only arms of length 1 or arms on track can create bonds between single atom
    molecules. a bonder only requires as many hand spaces as there are molecules
    to be bonded that only have 1 atom. More simply, the arm does not have to
    be able to be hands on the bonder unless one of the bond ingredients is a
    single atom. If both ingredients are a single atom, then both spots of the
    bonder must be covered by the arm.

EXAMPLES:

test 391:
    W => S-S-S-W

    - bonder requirements:
        product bond count > all reagent bond counts
        ergo: bonder required

    - recipe requirements:
        W in products. W in reagents. W is supplied.
        S in products. S not in reagents. S must be produced.
            S produced via calcification. (which is the only option.)
            calcification consumes E, W, F, A:
                one must be consumed.
                W is in reagents. S is satisfied by calcification.

    - arm and track requirements:
        how many required hand slots?
            reagent requires 1 hand slot
            product requires 1 hand slot
            bonder is present
                all reagents are 1 atom
                assume single atom reagents are getting bonded
                both slots on bonder require hand slots
            calcification changes state of atom in place
                atoms do not have to be dropped or grabbed as single atoms
                calcification does not require hand slot
                calcification does have to be reachable by atoms in mid-product
                product has bonds
                use arm deductions later to choose reachable space for calcifier

            total 4 hand slots, including 1 bonder with adjacent slots
            1 arm w/ length=1, no tracks

    - total parts:
        reagent W (cost 0)
        product S-S-S-W (cost 0)
        bonder (cost 10)
        calcifier (cost 10)
        1 arm (cost 20)

        total cost: 40

    - What positions work for the required parts?
        1 reagent, 1 product, 2 bonder spaces, all in a circle around the arm
        consider flow from reagent to product
        transformers should stay in between.

test 054:
    V + E + E + V => V-S-V-V
    4 reagents, each 2 duplicates:
        simplified:
        V + E => V-S-V-V

    - bonders:
        product bond count > all reagent bond counts
        ergo: bonder required

    - recipes:
        V in products. V in reagents. V is supplied.
        S in products. S not in reagents. S must be produced.
            S produced via calcification. (which is the only option.)
            calcification consumes E, W, F, A:
                one must be consumed.
                E is in reagents. S is satisfied by calcification.

    - arms and tracks:
        how many required hand slots?
            reagent E requires = 1 hand slot
            reagent V requires = 1 hand slot
            product V-S-V-V requires = 1 hand slot
            bonder is present
                all required reagents are 1 atom
                assume single atom reagents are getting bonded
                both slots on bonder require hand slots = 2 hand slots
            calcification changes state of atom in place
                atoms do not have to be dropped or grabbed as single atoms
                calcification does not require hand slot
                calcification does have to be reachable by atoms in mid-product
                product has bonds
                use arm deductions later to choose reachable space for calcifier

            total 5 hand slots, including 1 bonder with adjacent slots
            1 arm w/ length=1, no tracks

    - total parts:
        reagent V (cost 0)
        reagent E (cost 0)
        product V-S-V-V (cost 0)
        bonder (cost 10)
        calcifier (cost 10)
        1 arm (cost 20)

    - positions
        Reagents are single atoms so reagent blocking is not possible
        Therefore reagents should be treated as walls
        Hand slots available by the arm form a linear circle.
        Therefore, recipe parts AND the product parts should be placed on the
          same "side" between the reagents.
        bonder and product part requires at least 3 hand slot spaces.
        ergo reagents must be placed 1 or 2 spaces apart without anything
          between them.
        calcifier can be in the hand slots without concern since all E's are
          converted into S's, and other atoms are immune to calcification
        calcifier can be within 1-2 spaces away from the hand slots since the
          max dist between S atoms in the product and other atoms is 2.

HYPOTHETICALS:
    3 reagents, 1 product, and 1 arm is not possible without track.
    3 reagents, 2 product, and 1 arm is possible in select cases.
        not when all 3 reagents are used in one product.

    products must exist in between the used reagents, or else the reagents must
      use input overlap blocking
